Content: Hackathons (#53)
loadsmart/culture: events/hackathons.md

---
title: Hackathons
description: What are hackathons and how they happen at Loadsmart
---

# Hackathons

Hackathons are a great way to put innovative ideas into practice.

> These are presential events where we bring together engineers, product, designers, and operations to work and execute a project from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are either remote or in-person events where we bring together engineers, product, designers, and operations to work and execute a project from scratch.
```

Several projects at Loadsmart were idealized in one of those events.

Everyone can propose and pitch an idea, and it's up to the participants to choose where they best fit.
After the teams are formed, they have one or two weeks (depending on the rules of the specific event) to execute and then present a working product.
Judges from different departments will vote and the top three ideas win a prize.

## Numbers

We've had so far more than 400 unique participants during 7 editions.

1. New York City office (Nov/17)
2. New York City office (Apr/18)
3. Florianópolis / Brazil (Dec/18)
4. New York City and Chicago offices (Apr/19)
5. New York City and Chicago offices (Oct/19)
6. Remote edition (Jun/21)
7. Costão do Santinho Resort / Florianópolis / Brazil (Dec/21)

## Tips

Use the opportunity of being at a Hackathon to work with people you don't usually work with on a daily basis.

> This will enrich your knowledge of how the whole company works and as a bonus create new friends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will enrich your knowledge of how the whole company works and - as a bonus - you'll make new friends.
```

> Not only hack but enjoy the event at its most, learning, sharing, and having fun.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not only hack but enjoy the event at its most, by learning, sharing, and having fun.
```
